# Stage-1-HackBio-internship-
Authors: (@slack):Amira Mahmoud Mohamed (amira\\mahmoud\\4463)

Manar Tarek (ManarTj)

Noran Morad (NoranMorad)

Omar holayell sawy ( Holayell)


# **SRplot: Free Online Data Visualization Tool** [^1]

SRplot is a free online tool that makes graphs easier for scientists who
don't have programming skills. existing visualizing tools often require
coding skills in languages like R, Python or Perl. This is a challenge
for biologists who don't have programming experience. Bioinformaticians
create tools to handle specific tasks, like analysing genomic data,
annotations, or visualizing gene expression.

These tools are expensive as many of the most popular graphing tools
like GraphPad Prism, Microsoft Excel, and Origin are paid.

SRplot solves these problems by allowing users to create many different
types of graphs directly in their web browser without needing to any
programming skills with free access to non-commercial users.


# **Method:**

SRplot provides over 120 Python and R-coded modules designed for
visualising and generating graphs from biomedical and bioinformatics
data. While many of these functions were not originally developed for
SRplot, they have been optimized and enhanced.


# **Results**

SRplot developed for wet lab biologists, it contains 120 function covers
genomics, transcriptomics and epigenomics with many graphing types as

- basic graphs (bar plots, line plots, pie plots and scatter plots )

- genome plots(SNP density)

- transcriptome plots(heatmap, volcano plots, violin plots, bubble plots
  and chord plots)

- epigenome plots(metagene plots and motif plots)


# **Advantage**:

1\. It is freely online easy Tool which could be used with any
non-commercial.

2\. It is updated continuously with over 46000 stable users, embedded
with most databases.

3\. Results can be downloaded easily as bitmap (PNG & TIFF) or vector
(PDF & SVG) format.


# **Input & output:**

Users should paste their data in input box, setting preferred options
then submit, and if data has been changed then automatically it will be
recalculated and graphs will be regenerated.


# **Discussion**

SRplot is a freely accessible online tool designed to streamline the
process of data visualization and graphing for bioinformatics. It
addresses several common challenges faced by researchers, including the
complexity of programming-based tools, the high cost of commercial
software and the need for multiple tools to produce comprehensive
figures.


# **limitations:**

SRplot currently has limitations with visualizing high-dimensional data,
as large datasets slow down the website. Users may also need external
tools for more refined and aesthetically pleasing graphs. Additionally,
SRplot is not open-source but remains freely accessible for
non-commercial users.



# **Future developments:**

SRplot is not the final version, it will be continuously
enhanced.Upstream and downstream data analysis features will be added,
based on user feedback and advancements in the biomedical field.



# **Refrence:**

Tang D, Chen M, Huang X, Zhang G, Zeng L, et al. (2023) SRplot: A free
online platform for data visualization and graphing. PLOS ONE 18(11):
e0294236.

 <https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0294236>

[^1]:
